Blog post: Monolith necessity or nostalgia. My opinion (#63)
BurendoUK/burendo-handbook-public: blog/2023-05-19-Monolith-necessity-or-nostalgia.md

title: Monoliths in the 21st Century - Necessity or Nostalgia?
description: A summary of my thoughts, from the DTX panel.
slug: monolith-necessity-or-nostalgia
authors: cavery
tags: [engineering, Cloud, AWS]
---

# Monoliths in the 21st Century
_Approximately 5 minutes reading time._

Allow me to set the scene, on Wed 17th May at the [DTX expo](https://dtxevents.io/manchester/en/page/dtx-manchester), I was a panel member discussing the place and presence of monolithic applications within systems, now and going forward.
There was a lot of interesting points raised by the other panel members and myself, regarding the huge momentum shift towards serverless micro-services and whether or not monoliths should be sentenced to /dev/null.

Allow me to cover a few of the headline points and express my opinion, in words, as to why I feel we are looking at the original question slightly incorrectly.

## What is a monolith?

Within the tech industry there are many acronyms and terms banded around with the assumption that the receiving audience knows what it means. Monolith is one such term where everyone 'kind of' knows what it means but it can look and feel slightly differently to everyone.

> In the yester years when everyone practiced waterfall, monolithic applications were often the result of the engineering team's efforts. Now, they aren't too much different. Monoliths often have a single codebase, where all functionality, dependencies and modules are stored. Additionally, the modules are interdependent and therefore can't be deployed independently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, when everyone practiced waterfall, monolithic applications were often the result of the engineering team's efforts. Now, they aren't too much different. Monoliths often have a single codebase, where all functionality, dependencies and modules are stored. Additionally, the modules are interdependent and therefore can't be deployed independently.
```
